perguntas nat:
1- como fala ORF
2- as amostras que a gente ta montando e anotando são todas do estudo dele em Harvard, feitas em varias epocas certo?
3- "microarrays to genotype Saccharomyces strains of different origins" o q sao esses microarray?


- s288c e pangenoma (bunn):
Most previous studies of yeast strain diversity have assayed
only the reference genome of the S288c laboratory strain of
S. cerevisiae, for many years the sole sequenced member of this
species. However, the number of sequenced S. cerevisiae strains has
been expanding rapidly (Wei et al. 2007; Doniger et al. 2008;
Borneman et al. 2008; Liti et al. 2009; Novo et al. 2009; Borneman
et al. 2011a,b), yielding more complete insights into both SNP
level and structural variation and revealing that there are many
kilobases of additional sequence that do not exist in the reference
S288c genome. However, the S. cerevisiae pan-genome—the full
complement of sequences within the species—has not been ex-
tensively characterized across a large set of strains.

- desafios e beneficios de pang de sc (song):
	understanding the phe-
	notypic consequences of genetic variation remains a challenge in eukaryotes due to the
	complexity of the genotype-phenotype map. One approach to this is the intensive study of
	model systems for which diverse sources of information can be accumulated and integrat-
	ed. Saccharomyces cerevisiae is an extensively studied model organism, with well-known
	protein functions and thoroughly curated phenotype data. To develop and expand the avail-
	able resources linking genomic variation with function in yeast, we aim to model the pan-ge-
	nome of S. cerevisiae.

	- variabilidade genetica de sc e motivação pra pang de sc
	Argueso et al. [6] determined that a widely used Brazilian bioethanol strain that
	is resistant to heat and oxidative stress contains well-characterized alleles at several genes known
	to be linked with thermotolerance and fermentation performance.

	Genomics studies using the standard S288C yeast reference ge-
	nome have produced many informative and interesting results [13]. However, our understand-
	ing of yeast genetics and systems biology will widen and deepen if we can integrate new data
	into a pan-genome model to account for a greater proportion of the genetic and phenotypic
	variation exhibited by the global population of S. cerevisiae. A pan-genome is defined as the set
	of all genes in a species [14], and can be constructed from the union of gene sets over all S.
	cerevisiae strains.
	
- software de pang pra sc (song):
Pipelines for the pan-genome analysis of bacteria have been developed such as PGAP [15], but
these are not suitable for eukaryotic genomes, even for unicellular eukaryotes such as yeasts,
which exhibit more complex gene structures and non-genic regions than prokaryotes.
